Add changeset for content layer experimental release (#11644)
withastro/astro: .changeset/smooth-chicken-wash.md

'astro': minor
---

Adds experimental support for the Content Layer API.

The new Content Layer API builds upon content collections, taking them beyond local files in `src/content/` and allowing you to fetch content from anywhere, including remote APIs. These new collections work alongside your existing content collections, and you can migrate them to the new API at your own pace. There are significant improvements to performance with large collections of local files. 

### Getting started

To try out the new Content Layer API, enable it in your Astro config:

```js
import { defineConfig } from 'astro';

export default defineConfig({
  experimental: {
    contentLayer: true
  }
})
```

> You can then create collections in your `src/content/config.ts` using the Content Layer API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then create collections in your `src/content/config.ts` the Content Layer API in addition to continuing to use the existing content collections API. You can configure on a per-collection basis, and your schema may contain both kinds of collections at once.
```
Because this is abridged, we don't show the "migrate to / from" nor do we mention that you can keep your existing collections if you don't want to move them all over immediately. So I think frontloading this idea makes sense here for more confident adoption!

Author: I've included a similar sentence in the first paragraph, so I'm not sure this is needed too.

### Loading your content

The core of the new Content Layer API is the loader, a function that fetches content from a source and caches it in a local data store. Astro 4.14 ships with built-in `glob()` and `file()` loaders to handle your local Markdown, MDX, Markdoc, and JSON files:

```ts {3,7}
// src/content/config.ts
import { defineCollection, z } from 'astro:content';
import { glob } from 'astro/loaders';
		 
const blog = defineCollection({
  // The ID is a slug generated from the path of the file relative to `base`
  loader: glob({ pattern: "**/*.md", base: "./src/data/blog" }),
  schema: z.object({
    title: z.string(),
    description: z.string(),
    publishDate: z.coerce.date(),
  })
});

export const collections = { blog };
```

> You can then use the content in your site:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then query the content in your site using the existing content collections functions, and enjoy a simplified `render()` function:
```
I think this doesn't add too much bulk, yet makes the transition feel straightforward? And gives people an anchor for what will/won't be different?

'astro': minor
---

Adds experimental support for the content layer API.

The Content Layer API is a new way to handle content in Astro. It builds upon the content collections, taking them beyond local files in `src/content` and allowing you to fetch content from anywhere, including remote APIs, or files anywhere in your project. As well as being more powerful, the Content Layer is designed to be more performant, helping sites scale to thousands of pages. Data is cached between builds and updated incrementally. Markdown parsing is also 5-10x faster, and uses much less memory.

> You can try content layer with your existing content, or try a custom loader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can try content layer with your existing content, or try a custom loader.

To enable the content layer, add the following experimental flag in your Astro config:

```js
{
  experimental: {
      contentLayer: true,
   }
}
```

I'm not sure which flag name you're using, but the changeset should show people how to add it to their config!

Author: There's no flag. It's enabled by using `type: "experimental_content"` rather than a config flag

Reviewer: Ah, I see this now. OK, I'll think about this then!
